## Shamoooon

Shamoon is a computer worm that was used against the Saudi government and its oil company in 2012. This worms goal is to infect as many machines as possible, record all information on the target machines, and then try and render the machines inoperable. It is estimated that Shamoon destroyed 35,000 computers and probably took information from more. This attack was so effective that it brought the Saudi oil company too a stand still for almost a month. After the initial attack Shamoon has been used again against targets similar to the Saudi oil industry.

According to the experts at Kapersky Labs and my own speculation this attack probably did not originate from a national government. Like many attacks the Shamoon attack is a prime example of hackvism where a group attacks targets that they feel they need to combat for moral reasons. These sorts of attacks have the same destructive and disruptive power that attacks originating form national governments have. So attacks such as Shamoon are interesting case studies to consider when wondering if a none government aligned attack is still classified as cyber warfare.

Have we ever waged war against non governmental groups? After 9/11 we realized the culprits of the attack where a non government aligned group(Al Qaeda). Subsequently we attacked and invaded many countries that where not the direct perpetrators of the crime. It is entirely within the realm of possibilities that a cyber crime orginating from a country such as Japan but not controlled by Japan can still lead to an invasion. I don't know whether it is right or wrong to swing the hammer of ones hacking abilities against things we do not agree with. However when making these actions there is a possibility for complications that could hurt the people around you.