## Ethical Company Aesthetics 

### Ethical Employment
In a couple of months I will start my career as a computer programmer. Personally I want to work at a company that treats me and my fellow employees in an ethical fashion. Companies should not treat their employees as a means to an end. Facilitating the growth of employee's skills should be part of the company's mission statement along with profit making goals. I had an experience over the summer at a tech company in Austin who allowed its employees a week every summer to work on projects not related to the company on company time. The amount everyone learned during that week and the relaxed work atmosphere that followed was well worth delaying the company's development schedule. Practices like this that encourage holistic employee growth are important features of an ethical companies relationship with employees. 

### Do no harm
What does it mean for a tech company to do no harm? Most companies and people do not set out to hurt the world but, despite our best efforts things can and will go wrong. How careful must a company be to be labeled as an ethical company? Those companies that make a conscious effort to assess the short term and long term impact of their decisions in conjunction with those companies that own up to their mistakes when they do occur I think are worthy of being called ethical. A good example of a company that I do not think meets either of these standards is Volkswagen. Over the past decade they made fraudulent claims about the efficiency of their motors that have lead to an increase in pollution caused deaths. Besides messing up they also took years to admit their mistakes and instead shifted blame onto anyone they could find. Unfortunately its much easier to find companies that do not follow these rules then ones that do.
